it always seemed to me very peculiar and
instructive
that my parents carried with them a
strange sense of pride
their whole lives long because they
participated
in a protest a street protest against
the war in vietnam
more especially it was also giving voice
to outrage
at that time about the american bombing
of cambodia it seems to me strange
because i'm in a position to know
they were and remained completely
utterly ignorant of the political
reality
of the vietnam war and especially of the
american bombing
of cambodia all their lives long not
just at that time
were they ignorant they stayed ignorant
into their old age when they happened to
have a son i wasn't even born at the
time of that protest
they had a son who grew up and got a
serious research interest in cambodia
and who eventually moved to cambodia
started living in cambodia studying the
cambodian language
doing humanitarian work so you can
imagine not every
teenager of my generation might perceive
their parents in this way
but i was in this position to question
both the way in which their
participation in that
protest i don't know the way it became
for them
such an important ego trip that they
felt that they were participating in
the great and momentous events of
history in their time
but also the way in which it gave them
this
this sense of self-confidence
in their own ignorance it's that
dangerous but common combination of
self-righteous ignorance i don't think
my father
ever read one book about
what happened in cambodia his whole life
long
i don't even know in what format he
received
communist propaganda about what was
going on
in vietnam and cambodia probably
probably just word of mouth
he was an extremist talking to other
extremists i don't think they had their
own radio stations
or anything of the kind and it never
changed
he never took a positive engaged
attitude
towards that war as it unfolded nor any
of the other
wars that came and went during during my
short life i'm now 41 years old or his
long life he's he's now deceased so you
know i was at home
living with my parents when the
americans invaded
yugoslavia you know the kosovo crisis
the
breakup of yugoslavia those wars the
american involvement they remained
just as self-righteous and
just as ignorant and they went out and
participated in
street protests in their self-righteous
ignorance and they were opposing
what the americans were doing in
yugoslavia at kosovo
and they didn't even know why and i
think my father went to his grave
and he never knew why he never learned
the first goddamn
thing about these momentous important
political events of his generation and
mine
obviously our generations overlap i knew
more about all of them
than he did and i have no special source
of information here
i just read books go to the library get
reports
very often as i'm going to talk about
today in this video
the most important source information i
had to work with were just
having the humility to acquire and read
the government's own
reports on these things so the last few
days it took some time to read
united states house of congress report
on
the war in afghanistan and it's kind of
sort of
the final report it's the report talking
about the end of the war
and the signing of various peace
treaties
and then the question of what's going to
happen next with the people of
afghanistan for the taliban
for the us military so on and so forth
so in its small way
this report from american house of
congress
it marks a really important moment in in
my life
in your lives anyone who's been alive
for the last
20 some years and yet i think
for even you watching this video you can
pause and ask if you yourselves read
anything of the kind either this final
report or anything in last week
or if you know anyone in your lives who
reads this kind of material who cares
about history as it's now unfolding and
let's let's just add
in the same way that my parents attended
protest
i think probably all of you know people
who attended protests about these things
you probably know people who attended
protests against the war in iraq
against the war in afghanistan against
one aspect or another of
george w bush's military career
shall we say but the little bit
of effort it takes a little bit of
curiosity and humility to really learn
about what's going on and why it's it's
shocking and saddening
to me how how rare that is i didn't
think i was an extraordinary person
when i was a teenager and i asked my
father
about what happened in cambodia and i
was totally dissatisfied with his
with his answer i didn't think i was
extraordinary when i was dissatisfied
with what i was hearing about
iraq afghanistan yugoslav any any of
these examples
and i just took the time to challenge my
own ignorance and
find out some answers as to as to why
now
with this having been said many of the
most
mysterious things in our political
history
they are mysteries because we want them
to be mysteries
people don't know because they prefer
to be ignorant and again it may be this
sense of self-righteous ignorance that
appeals to them
why and how did the french
lose in their war against the nazis
in the year 1940. so that was the war in
which germany
conquered france the french have for
many many years
used the very round number of a hundred
thousand
deaths that a hundred thousand french
men
died before the french side surrendered
capitulated
of course they didn't just lose to the
nazis they in effect switched sides they
created this new government the vichy
regime and they started fighting
for the nazis with the nazis supporting
the nazis so it's
really really major event history france
and everyone pretends that it's
real mysterious why the french lost
the real number of french who died is uh
closer to
60 000 and 60 000 itself historians
today are willing to admit
even that is rounding up it's a generous
estimate quite likely fewer than 60 000
french died
fighting at the nazis in 1940
the french had over five
million men an active military service
at that time so if you want to know
why and how the french lost the war
against the nazis
it's because they weren't willing to
fight until
2.5 million three million four million
five months they weren't willing to
fight up to a level of
millions of casualties
if you were to ask in the last 20 years
why did the united states lose its war
in afghanistan
it's because the americans were not
willing to fight
until they had millions of casualties
the total number of americans who died
is very roughly
2 500. if you include america's other
allies like canada
england and so on even some small
eastern european countries
it only goes up to about 3 500. i
apologize i don't
i don't have those numbers memorized but
one number that i do have memorized
is 60 000.
it's a coincidence that earlier i told
you only 60 000
frenchmen died trying to defeat the
nazis in 1940
the total number of taliban troops
the total number of armed men actively
fighting for the taliban side
is only 60 000.
number of people in the afghan side the
anti-taliban
side if you like it seems to be harder
to estimate because so many of them quit
every year but it's probably over 200
000. they have a budget
of more than 4 billion u.s
dollars per year last year was about 5
billion
changes a little bit from year to year
if you have
200 000 men with 4
billion dollars on one side and only 60
taliban fighters on the other
it's not hard to see why and how the
americans lost this war
but there's a very very important
difference here and of course this is
why the french would prefer
this remain mysterious and i have to say
as the next
10 years roll by i think that americans
will try to make this
chapter of history mysterious too right
i mean i think there is a similar kind
of um
cultivated obscurity about the end of
the vietnam war how and why americans
lost in vietnam well well you know
it's a mystery it's it's very
complicated no it's not no it's not
what happened at the end of the vietnam
war under nixon i've already talked
about it numerous youtube videos
it's not mysterious people just don't
want to know
people just don't want to talk about the
terrible truth behind it
um i think as the next few years go by
we're gonna have a similar kind of
myth-making certainly the war in
afghanistan
the motivations of the americans
following after
september 11 2001
were simply to seek out
revenge there are very
few wars in history that
really can be explicated in terms of
revenge
and i just say you know trying to
conquer back
territory that used to be part of your
own country that's irredentism that's
different
colonialism that's different even trying
to enslave and loot people that's
different
the americans in 2001 and 2002
they did not have a plan to conquer
afghanistan to rule afghanistan to
create a new government or democracy in
afghanistan
the american people and i would say most
of the people in the american government
they had an incredibly short-sighted and
stupid mission
of simply seeking out revenge and it
seems that their
notion of revenge was to have a
bottomless budget
they didn't care how many billions of
dollars it cost
but they were in a sense cowardly
because they wanted to have as few
casualties on the american side
as possible they were not willing to
risk american lives
and that is the formula for the war as
it was fought and for the war in a sense
as it is still being fought to this day
after the withdrawal of american troops
american combat troops are all
gone and the ones that remain are
basically guarding the equipment as it
is being withdrawn
they're shutting down their bases one by
one but what america is
continuing to do is hand over roughly
four billion dollars per year to the
afghan
government's army now
france in 1940
i mean it's just surreal if there ever
were an historical circumstance
in which you'd have to say look guys it
doesn't matter if
1 million people die or two million
people die or all
five million die and and in case you
don't know this about war
when you have an army that big five
million you can be recruiting
another million man each year you can
have new men being trained and
entering the army with each passing year
so even if you have millions of deaths
per year you can also be recouping those
losses
if there ever was a war in which the
french side should have had
100 commitment to fight to the last man
to the death to resist foreign conquest
and occupation it was in 1940 when they
were being conquered by the germans
because they weren't just being
conquered by any germans they were being
conquered by the nazis
i mean you could make some kind of
argument that
200 years earlier or 150 years earlier
when it was a totally different
government in germany even in the old
days even you talk about
under napoleon when napoleon was
fighting against
austria okay you say what difference
would it make
why can't the french just just team up
with the austrians well if the austrians
conquer paris
what difference is it really gonna make
napoleon ended up getting married to an
austrian princess anyway
can't can't the french aristocracy and
the austrian aristocracy just sort of
their differences and have one big
empire including both france and austria
you know you could make arguments for
different chapters of history this way
but if there was one moment in the
history of planet earth when the french
should have been willing to fight not
not to 60 000
casualties and then quit but to millions
and millions and millions
it was 1940. so this is about courage
it's about commitment
and it's about having a clear vision of
the political outcomes that you're
willing to pursue that's going to
justify those
those sacrifices so the the the mystery
of 1940 is that nobody in france and
pretty much nobody in the rest of the
world
really wants to face up to the shocking
cowardice
of the french side in 1940 and without
digressing into it too much further
it's very very difficult for me to have
a charitable attitude towards that
because the history and politics i've
been interested in my whole life
has so much to do with french
colonialism overseas
so it's like well gee the french you
seem to have plenty of bravery
when you're massacring people in third
world countries
who are greatly inferior in their level
of technology and wealth when you're
going and spreading your empire
conquering parts of africa parts of
southeast asia like cambodia
even conquering parts of canada that
became quebec or what have you
gee you guys seem real brave when you're
fighting this
completely asymmetrical and unequal
warfare when you're massacring people
who don't stand a chance against you but
when when we're literally talking about
the germans
conquering paris this shocking
appalling unforgivable cowardice this
shocking appalling unforgivable lack of
commitment
and again long story short the french
didn't have any lack of
tanks they didn't have any lack of naval
vessels that very impressive navy at
that time airplanes
they didn't have a lack of fighting men
in uniform or ammunition or guns there
was no
technological difficulty here right the
problem was
in a sense political social cultural
the problem was of course primarily the
government but in large part the people
behind the government and the whole of
western society has tried to give itself
amnesia
and try to just remember the bravery of
the french resistance the people who in
effect became terrorists
fighting against the germans after their
own government capitulated and became
pro-german
uh tried to hypnotize ourselves into a
version of history in which the french
the french
are heroes rather than villains in world
war ii but yeah this is a case where
cowardice led to villainy so
in the year 2001 2002 2003
thereabouts the problem is
precisely that the american people never
ask themselves to commit
to conquering afghanistan to creating
a new government in afghanistan to any
kind of vision
of the future in afghanistan all that
they wanted
was revenge and indeed it might be asked
why didn't george w bush just give them
that with something like a six-month war
and then abandon afghanistan and then
leave if the point was revenge
only and then conversely
if that's not what you were going to do
if you were just doing a punitive
expedition
of this kind if you were actually
playing to win you would have to have
the commitment
not just to spend billions of dollars
which united states certainly has done
united states is certainly going to
bankrupt itself you would have to commit
your finest bravest not just young men
but young women also in their millions
to go to that country conquer that
country learn their language
live with them build a new future build
a new society
for the people of afghanistan and that
was something the americans were never
committed to now very briefly
this same pattern plays itself out in
miniature
if someone were to ask right now why has
the american side lost
in syria why is the american side lost
in yemen why is the american side lost
in
libya right what we're talking about
here
ultimately is the willingness to suffer
millions of casualties on your own side
and i think there's a parallel to what i
said about
france in 1940 just a few minutes ago
it's that just as the french became
shall we say
enervated the french became lazy
and cowardly because they got used to
just bombing and beating up on people in
third world countries
that couldn't really fight back right
the americans
in the years since world war ii they've
become very used to
bombing places like nicaragua hey you
know what we can even include
cambodia and vietnam those people
couldn't bomb you back you know
these incredibly asymmetrical unfair if
you like
conflicts the united states has gotten
very accustomed to massacring people in
third world countries with impunity
and they've really ceased to think
through at any level politically
you know the society as a whole or
congress or the elite levels of uh
united states government they've they've
ceased to think through responsibly what
it would really mean
if the united states wanted to bring
democracy
to syria it would mean millions
of your people dying that's the
commitment you'll be talking about
all right
i had a conversation with someone
over the internet who was writing in
offended by my recent videos about the
intellectual legacy of john norman
john norman was the author of the gore
series of science fiction fantasy books
and she wrote in repeatedly referring to
this author john norman
as a great philosopher and a great
intellectual
and i said to her look i've got to ask
you to pause and reconsider here
um no no he's not
there are a lot of people i personally
despise
like slavoy jizek
whom i have to recognize as philosophers
and intellectuals
i hate slavoshi he's the worst kind of
communist and
also i just think his commentary on
batman movies and this kind of thing is
of no substance i neither respect his
work on politics
nor philosophy nor on pop culture stuff
like batman i have no respect for
anything
the guy does but if you look at the life
of slavoy jack sure even if he's a bad
philosopher
he is a philosopher i utterly despise
noam chomsky i think he's a bad
philosopher i don't actually like his
philosophy about linguistics
i don't like social politics at all any
of it i don't like him as a person
nope yeah i don't but if you ask me is
noam chomsky a philosopher
um is he an intellectual of course he is
sure he just happens to be one whose
work
i dislike i don't appreciate i disagree
with
etc right person writing into me
defending the intellectual heritage of
john norman
what i had to say to challenger was was
this
this guy he's now more than 80 years old
can you remember any political event
that's unfolded during his lifetime that
he commented this guy was
a white philosophy professor in an
american university and he
lived through the transition from these
being segregated white only
institutions to integrating with black
people the unfolding these amazing
social changes in the united states of
america and he wasn't a teenager during
those years
he was a university professor t.u
philosophy during those years
i mean he lived through the vietnam war
the war in cambodia i mean
every war i've mentioned in this video
this guy was adult during him to get
this is someone who's now in his 80s
he lived through all these momentous
changes in history
and not only did he never show the
slightest interest
research interest intellectual interest
or compassionate interest charity
interest in
anything happening outside of his window
he remained obsessively focused
on his own fetishes shall we say
and all of his fetishes have to do with
slavery
and yet he never showed any interest in
the real history of slavery the real
consequences of slavery there were in
some ways visible right outside his
window
or right in his own university classroom
in the united states
of america
the person i was talking to didn't have
a whole lot to say in reply
my point is here i want you in the
audience
to learn the same lesson i learned just
by observing the hypocrisy
of my own parents i want you to learn
the same lesson that i'm adam braiding
here
with the life of john norman okay don't
let history
pass you by the way to feel meaningful
and
meaningfully engaged with history as it
unfolds
is not standing on the street shouting
and holding a placard it's not burning
an american flag in front of an embassy
it's not throwing smoke bombs around one
of these things tear rat gas grenades
what is being glorified and glamorized
once again in 2020 as
so-called peaceful protest aka rioting
aka street violence
this is not the way to have a meaningful
connection with political history
in your time and like my own parents you
can go to those protests
and remain beautifully ignorant of what
it is you're protesting
and why it's hard i i don't have the
time to do much reading in english i
really don't i woke up this morning at 5
00 a.m
i studied chinese i think from 6 40 a.m
to 8 40 a.m i probably should get back
to studying chinese now
i have other commitments i have other
worries in my life we all do
it's hard to take the time to read
about to learn about to research about
to ask yourself
the hard questions and to not be
satisfied
with the easy answers the answers that
are made available to you by the
mainstream media
if you just do a little bit of research
it's going to enrich your life
and if if there's a possibility
that you can make a positive difference
in that history as it unfolds
wouldn't you want your action your
intervention
your involvement to be on the basis of
real understanding on the basis of the
things you learned
through that research rather than being
on the basis of
self-righteous ignorance